Hagos,
welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going to speak about the workbook.
Activate event.
So the workbook activate event works whenever you activate your workbook.
However,
it does not work when you activate your workbook coming from another application other than
excel.
But it actually works when you activate your workbook coming from another workbook in Excel
.
Okay,
so see that inaction?
So I'm gonna go to the developer tab on the ribbon click on visual Basic.
And I'm gonna double quick here on this workbook,
open the module for workbook events,
and then I'm gonna select workbook from this menu.
I'm going to select the activate event.
So now I have selected the activate event,
and I'm just going to write a simple message box here.
Message box.
Maybe when you select it back,
he would say,
Welcome back.
Okay,
A simple message box.
Now I'm just gonna close here the v b A editor,
and now I'm gonna switch to Microsoft Word.
So I'm now I'm on Microsoft Word.
If I switch back to excel,
you see,
nothing happens,
Okay.
However,
if I open a new workbook and I switched to my workbook,
the event gets fired or whatever code you've written there gets executed.
Okay,
so this is how the workbook activate event works.
Remember,
it does not work when you activate the workbook coming from another application.
It works when you activate the workbook coming from another workbook in Excel.
Okay,
so you can pretty much make any code run whenever you activate your workbook.
OK?
So ah,
that's it for the workbook.
Activate event is very simple.
I don't use it a lot,
but probably you could have other uses.
Your story could be different.
Okay,
So feel free to open a discussion on what you might use it in or how you use there are what
it was useful for in your case is Okay,
so thanks very much for watching this video.
I'll see on the next one.